hello everyone let's take a look at our
next problem
how many solutions are there to KX
equals e to the X for different values
of K
okay so the first thing that's coming to
my mind here is that
um it'll be useful to
picture what these two functions look
like so you know we have a linear
function through the origin with a slope
of K and we also have an exponential and
we might want to think about
um the sine of K in particular is going
to be kind of important here
um
okay so first let's draw
a figure of what's going on I'm going to
handle the first case where K is
negative
uh
if K is negative then
the slope looks something like that
um
and the exponential is always going to
look something like that these clearly
always have only one point of
intersection
so
for K Less Than Zero
one intersection let me say one solution
in fact I'll write down the relation
that we're considering here in the first
place KX equals e to the X okay so for K
less than zero there's only one solution
uh it's also kind of obvious that when K
is equal to zero
there are no Solutions
right if our pink curve here just lies
along the x-axis well the exponential is
never zero so there's no intersection
um and now we want to think about
positive values of K
okay I guess I only really need to draw
this for
positive values of Y here
okay so the function KX
looks something like that
and I suppose we could have anywhere we
could have zero one or two
intersections here if the exponential if
the slope here is very low
uh the exponential
may never intersect
or it may intersect once tangentially
or it might
come below you know if this
if the linear thing
well yeah here are the three possible
cases for
uh the intersections if I extend this
one out infinitely there will be another
solution okay so let's figure out
uh which values of K
correspond to which of these three cases
I think
maybe one easy way to do this is let's
look for the case when there's only one
solution and let's do that by
um
thinking about maybe doing that by
matching the derivative maybe that won't
be maybe that won't be so easy
um
so let's say f of x is KX
and G of x
is e to the x
F Prime is the constant k
G Prime is the cons is the function e to
the x
um
if we are to see
okay what yeah so
if we're looking for the tangent if
we're looking for the value of K which
gives us the case where the line is
tangent
and that'll happen at the value of x
when e to the x is equal to K
this gives us X is equal to log of K
so then what I want is
when X is equal to log K I need the
original two functions to be equal
so we want F of log k
to be equal to G
of log k
so F of log K is K
log k
of log of K is just K so this gives us
log of K is equal to one
and so K is equal to
e
all right
um so this says that when K is equal to
E
there's one solution
right because this will give us the the
solution which is tangent
uh when K is greater than e
we will have two solutions
and when K is bigger than zero but less
than e
actually I guess we could we can group
this up into
when K is equal to zero let me copy this
down so we can have the full solution
written
all on one page they're all in one
section
yeah so the case of K
being this case here that I'm
highlighting
this can be combined with the k equals
zero case
by just changing
that
and there we go I think we've considered
all possible values of K in this list
here
we have negative values zero
maybe these should be interchanged
so that they're in order like this
and uh that's it yeah
um
this really came down to
uh just as soon as I saw the relation
that we're thinking about here just
visualizing what the graphs of these two
functions look like and how they could
possibly intersect or not
um
and then I guess you know the key in
figuring out the boundaries between
where we change from zero to one to two
um I think solving for that point of
tangency
and still the only clear way that I see
to figure this out but maybe there's
another clever way of doing it thanks
for watching